Hired by a dwarf called [[docs/Gundren Rockseeker]] to take his shit to the place where he's staying. He wants to go ahead with his friend [[docs/Sildar Hallwinter]] ('cause they thought why not) so they hired us. The contents of the wagon are: 12 sacks of flour, 4 casts of salted pork, 2 kegs of strong ale, 12 shovels/picks/crowbars/etc, 5 lanterns, and a small barrel of oil (50 flasks worth). It is around 100gp worth. Our job is to escort this wagon from the city of [[docs/Neverwinter]] where he gathered us to the frontier town out in the east called [[docs/Phandalin]]. Used to be a thriving mining town, but isn't any more. Cart pulled by oxen. We get a reward for escorting this thing, we'll be given about 10gp each. We're about a few hours from our destination.

Grace: is there law enforcement? Percy: there's a mayor running the town etc.

## The journey begins
Early-mid afternoon, spring. We turn round a bend and... two dead horses sprawled about 50ft ahead, blocking the path. Each has black-feathered arrows sticking out of them. We recognise the horses - they are the horses that Gundren and Sildar ventured out on originally. The saddlebags have been looted. An empty leather map case has been strewn nearby.

From the thickets, two goblins appear! Combat. They slice through Balthazar's hip and drop him to 2hp. We hear an arrow whistling... He full heals with Cure Wounds. Caebrek uses warhammer to thwack one of the goblins round the head; he crumples down to the ground, unconscious. Rae pierces the other goblin's side and he falls. The other goblin seems to run away to the north.

Rae starts walking away, "everything is fine...everything is..\<grunt\>fine..." Balthazar comes after. Caebrek takes some rope and binds the unconscious goblins up and puts them in the sacks that contained flour. Had to cut the rope into 10ft + 10ft + 30ft remaining chunks. Balthazar runs to the cart, empties another sack of flour, and comes back to Rae. He wraps her wound in the sack, stemming the bleeding. Balthazar helps Caebrek pick up the goblins and put them in the wagon. Caebrek halves the remaining 30ft rope (Balthazar gives a stare like "do not cut any more of this damn rope"). They use the remaining rope to try to move the horses off the path...they fail their athletics checks and Rae just suggests to use the oxen to move the horses instead after watching them fail miserably. Balthazar unties the oxen to the cart and attaches them to the horses, and they start to slowly pull them to the embankment off the side of the road.

We start the trek toward [[docs/Phandalin]] again. The goblins wake up. Caebrek puts a dagger to one of the goblins and "interviews" them. Caebrek cuts the neck of one of the goblins, causing him to fall unconscious, then casts Spare the Dying. Light is dimming. The remaining goblin is tired of life, mainly; mistreated in life. After the goblin refuses to give up any information, Caebrek gets out warhammer and thwacks him in the head, killing him instantly. The goblin is then thrown over the side of the cart.

## Arriving at Phandalin
Lights come up in the distance, a few dots from a couple of houses on the outskirts of the town. We arrive in town along the Triboar Trail. Need to drop wagon off at [[docs/Phandalin#Barthen's Provisions]]. The goblin that's still alive was the one that Raewyll stabbed. The constant reminder that she stabbed someone keeps playing on her mind.

Caebrek casts Disguise Self to turn themselves into Balthazar, and walks to Barthen's Provisions. "Open 7am-6pm. Recommended: go to the Stonehill Inn if arriving later." It's a fairly normal-looking tavern, not run-down, not posh. 6-7 tables, some booths, people sitting around drinking, chatting, a barkeep behind the bar. Caebrek goes to the barkeep, who looks a little wary (given that Balthazar's form has no skin). Barkeep suggests to talk to Barthen to learn more about Gundren. He suggests that they take a drink and go to bed for the night.

Caebrek buys a tankard of ale, and starts talking to someone called Narth, who is reading a book. Also talks to a dwarf and asks him where one could find a dragon in these parts. He says to talk to Quelline, who lives in/near a farm. His expertise is in mining. Caebrek also talks to someone who says Barthen never stops going on about [[docs/Gundren Rockseeker]]. Gossip from this person: 

>Apparently, Daran Edermath went on all these quests, doesn't talk to people, just sits in his orchard. A bit odd, like ancient...I think he's a half-elf? He really should be dead but he's not. Like 180 years old?
>
>Everyone in the town is quite friendly, but the [[docs/Redbrands]] - people wouldn't be sad if they're gone. They normally inhabit the Sleeping Giant. They keep raiding stores...my mother has a story for you if you want to know about them.

Caebrek returns to the cart. Balthazar is humming and Rae is playing the ukulele along to it. Caebrek goes to the goblin - the music stops. "How old was your companion?" He (apparently) doesn't know. We all go to sleep in the back of the wagon.
