## Barthen's Provisions
We wake up in the back of the wagon. Rae and Balthazar walk to Stonehill Inn. Order some food. Balthazar asks if tavernkeep has seen Barthen yet, he hasn't yet, but his shop [[Phandalin#Barthen's Provisions]] should be open.

Meanwhile, Caebrek checks to see if the remaining goblin is actually still alive - he's stable but very asleep. Upon learning this information, the natural decision was to punch the goblin awake. Goblin awakens and screams. This goblin is named Wart. Caebrek says that he'll remove the goblin's arm if he doesn't tell him who sent them. Reveals: the goblins live in a cave (he just follows other people, doesn't know exact location). The superior is called Klarg but is annoying; the rest of them want Yeemick to be in charge but he's also a bit of a bitch. Klarg gets orders from some place - Cragmar castle? They goblins are in the Cragmar hideout. Experienced multiple winters, so been in there multiple years. One can through the woods to find the cave. Caebrek threatens to remove Wart's arm anyway. Raewyll returns, screams at the horror unfolding, and separates the two in exchange for giving them the food.

Stuff has been eaten and drunk. We go to Barthen's Provisions. Caebrek immediately orders a Bee Revival Kit for 1sp. We tell Barthen that Gundren's horses have perished. Gundren was supposed to arrive a day ago but he's not here...Barthen is worried. Barthen thinks it was the goblins. Barthen wants us to find out what happened to him, and the people employed to transport the wagon (us!). Caebrek is trying to persuade Barthen that we're not those people, saying instead we're his friends. Raewyll is trying to look like not associated with the other two. She buys 50ft rope (for 6sp not the normal 1gp because she looks trustworthy!) and exits immediately. Caebrek tries to sell Barthen the items that were on the wagon. Balthazar and Caebrek majestically fail their persuasion checks, and Barthen realises. Rae overhears and re-enters; Balthazar yoinks Rae's rope in an attempt to tie up Barthen.

A witness comes in. Rae talks to Barthen and reveals our employer, indicates she doesn't want to stay with the rest of the party and therefore basically betrays them and says the others want to fleece him. We eventually persuade him that we're tentatively ok to trust...ish. Barthen wants us to investigate [[Gundren Rockseeker|Gundren]] and the [[Redbrands]] in exchange for some money.

Linene, at the Lionsshield Coster, deals in shields and armour and that sort of thing; she only sells to people who are trustworthy. Quelline knows a lot about plants and herbs (Caebrek wants poison).

## The Escape of Wart
There is no goblin in the cart any more. In the dirt path are splotches of something that jumped off the wagon, fell over, and continued down the road... Wart is gone!

There is no blood in the wagon. Caebrek and Balthazar take a small amount of the pork and ale for the future journey. Balthazar and Raewyll lead the oxen and cart to Barthen's Provisions. Raewyll tells Barthen that Gundren originally offered 15gp but she suggests 10gp for his troubles. He accepts (for Raewyll) giving her 15gp and the others 10gp because they were more troublesome. Raewyll and Barthen leave amicably.

Caebrek and Balthazar go to the Stonehill Inn, ask for Quelline. Someone says she's going to be at [[Phandalin#Alderleaf Farm]]. They go there and find a little cottage and a bunch of fields with wheat, carrots etc, and a barn at the back. Caebrek denies Balthazar the opportunity to suckle on the teat of the cow at the farm. They knock on the cottage door. A halfling woman opens the door. Quelline invites them in for tea (no ale in her house). The goblins have apparently been plaguing the merchants, and the Redbrands have been terrible to everyone. The townmaster won't do anything about it, no backbone in that man! A druid friend called Reidoth lives in the ruins of Thundertree who knows more about herbal things than she does. Reidoth also knows about a dragon! She also says that the goblins are tricksters and lay traps, and no-one knows where they are. Caebrek loves the tea (both the physical and metaphorical).

Raewyll goes to the Lionshield Coster to get weapons. She buys a handaxe. Linene indicates she'd give money for adventurers to take out the goblins.

## The goblin cave
There are sack-prints (and the occasional face-print) down the path. The path eventually does a U-turn and then goes into the thickets, there's an opening that Wart has clearly ploughed through. Balthazar leads, then Caebrek, then Rae - Balthazar tries to track. There's been downtrodden sticks that we can follow. We're ready to fight if we need to. Balthazar offers the black-tipped arrows, they don't look poisoned or anything, they are sharp enough to use. There are some suspicious leaves, could be a trap! Balthazar guides us around a couple of traps.

We come to the mouth of a cave. Our loud noises alert something in the bushes - two arrows come whizzing out. We run into the cave. Inside is a stream and a pathway. Up ahead is a bridge over the stream. To the right are steps leading up to another room, and just before the bridge is somewhere going off to the left. Caebrek manages to intimidate the lookout goblins into returning to their post.

We go to the right, and Balthazar produces a small flame to be able to see. Small dank chamber, filled with the stench of animals. 3 wolves chained up to an iron rode driven into the base of a stalagmite. There's a fissure going upwards. Caebrek manages to climb up it, and finds sacks and crates of looted provisions...and Klarg the bugbear! Caebrek talks to Klarg (who is understandably confused), and falls back down the fissure taking lots of damage. The wolves wake up, and we skirt around them out of the room. The lookout goblins come back in as they think we're a threat again due to the howling of the wolves. Fight begins. Raewyll instakills a goblin attacking Balthazar with sneak attack. Caebrek uses the warhammer to kill the other goblin - they're both dead.

In the path to the left, there's rubble as if there's been a cave-in. There's a ledge, not much here. This passage isn't really used.

Towards the bridge, there's a stream coming down the left and a waterfall bit on the right. Above, there is a bridge going across, connecting a passageway on the left to one on the right. We continue forwards, under the bridge. Raewyll notices a goblin on the left hand side of the bridge peeking around. Before we can escape, they chuck a javelin at Balthazar and it punctures his spleen. We then round the corner.

Two other goblins remove some stones from the edge of a pool of water, causing it to gush down the cavern we were just in. Raewyll shoves one of them into the water, causing it to get flushed away down the stream. Caebrek whacks the other goblin with the warhammer. Rae then stabs the goblin with a dagger and its lifeless body floats down the stream. The goblin from the bridge gets to us, Rae stabs and Caebrek finishes it off.

We go back the other way to go up to the bridge, we cross it and follow the path. There is a large area with three goblins around a fire, with some steps up to a higher level. There's a human man tied up against a rock, quite badly wounded. Raewyll tries to covertly shoot one of the goblins with the bow, but it misses. Fight breaks out; Raewyll and Balthazar are knocked unconscious.

One of the goblins then calls a truce, otherwise the human dies. They also say that if we kill Klarg, they won't kill us. The goblin says the human is called Sildar. Apparently Gundren was taken back to the "big bit", i.e. the castle. Caebrek casts spare the dying on Rae and Balthazar. We take a long rest inside the cave so that we can heal up to deal with Klarg.

## Onwards, to Klarg
We go towards Klarg's lair. Balthazar, being very "popular with the Klargs", attempts to flirt with Klarg. He flutters his lower eyelids (which he has) at Klarg, tells him that a friend said he is very attractive, and offers to watch the waterfalls together.

> Klarg - Klarg thoughts? Your friend, mirage. Your friend does not exist. Klarg better than you. Klarg knows more. Klarg hotter. Klarg out of your league. Klarg going to be mighty warlord. You, just peasant. You odd creature from the depths of hell. You do not deserve Klarg's love.
>
> *Klarg*

Balthazar weeps and goes down the steps. Klarg feels pleased with this outcome. Raewyll gives a dagger to each of the others, and they surprise Klarg by simultaneously throwing the daggers as Rae shoots the shortbow. Caebrek smashes in the pet wolf's head with a warhammer. Balthazar is downed twice. Klarg is killed by Caebrek's opportunity attack. Caebrek sings the "Klarg's in a heap" song. The loot contains emblems of a lion on a shield - Raewyll has seen this insignia before, the sign outside the weapons shop. Rae assumes that this loot contains the stolen shipment of shields. There's a crate with its lid slightly ajar, inside is a treasure chest. Inside is a piece of paper saying "this is Klarg's, keep out". There are 600cp, 110sp, 2 potions of healing, and a little jade statuette of a frog with gold eyes.

Caebrek and Rae carry Balthazar back into the room with the goblins. Rae says "We have killed Klarg", and proves it by pulling out the "this is Klarg's, keep out" paper from her pack. Rae gives the frog statuette to the goblin in exchange for Sildar. Rae cuts through the rope and frees Sildar. The whereabouts of Wart are, at this point, unknown.

Sildar joined the Griffin Cavalry of Waterdeep, and has been an agent of the Lord's Alliance ever since. About 5 years ago, he met a strange small fellow who seemed to want help looking for a mine. His name was [[Gundren Rockseeker]]. Met him in [[Neverwinter]], and he recently asked him to join on a quest, as Gundren found the map to the mine they were looking for. He has his own reasons to be in Phandalin, so agreed to join in the trek. Another friend, Iarno Albrek, was a member of the Lord's Alliance; he disappeared a while back when he went to Phandalin. Wants to find him. Klarg is certainly not the leader. Perhaps, the black spider who gave him orders from Cragmar Castle is the real leader. He fears that it was on this spider's orders that he and Gundren were attacked. They must have taken the map that Gundren had. He has no idea where the castle is. Sildar introduces [[The Lost Mine]].

Balthazar awakens. We leave the cave and go back to Phandalin, and book rooms in the [[Phandalin#Stonehill Inn]].

Level up to Level 2 at start of next session.
